CHAPTER III. A Cucus-Rce nd  Long Tle

They were indeed  queer-looking prty t ssemled on e nk--e
irds wi drggled feers, e nimls wi eir fur clinging close
to em, nd ll dripping wet, cross, nd uncomfortle.

The first question of course ws, how to get dry gin: ey hd 
consulttion out is, nd fter  few minutes it seemed quite nturl
to e to find herself tlking fmilirly wi em, s if she hd
known em ll her life. Indeed, she hd quite  long rgument wi e
Lory, who t lst turned sulky, nd would only sy, 'I m older n
you, nd must know etter'; nd is e would not llow wiout
knowing how old it ws, nd, s e Lory positively refused to tell its
ge, ere ws no more to e sid.

At lst e Mouse, who seemed to e  person of uority mong em,
clled out, 'Sit down, ll of you, nd listen to me! I'LL soon mke you
dry enough!' They ll st down t once, in  lrge ring, wi e Mouse
in e middle. e kept her eyes nxiously fixed on it, for she felt
sure she would ctch  d cold if she did not get dry very soon.

'Ahem!' sid e Mouse wi n importnt ir, 're you ll redy? This
is e driest ing I know. Silence ll round, if you plese! "Willim
e Conqueror, whose cuse ws fvoured y e pope, ws soon sumitted
to y e English, who wnted leders, nd hd een of lte much
ccustomed to usurption nd conquest. Edwin nd Morcr, e erls of
Merci nd Norumri--"'

'Ugh!' sid e Lory, wi  shiver.

'I eg your prdon!' sid e Mouse, frowning, ut very politely: 'Did
you spek?'

'Not I!' sid e Lory hstily.

'I ought you did,' sid e Mouse. '--I proceed. "Edwin nd Morcr,
e erls of Merci nd Norumri, declred for him: nd even Stignd,
e ptriotic rchishop of Cnterury, found it dvisle--"'

'Found WHAT?' sid e Duck.

'Found IT,' e Mouse replied rer crossly: 'of course you know wht
"it" mens.'

'I know wht "it" mens well enough, when I find  ing,' sid e
Duck: 'it's generlly  frog or  worm. The question is, wht did e
rchishop find?'

The Mouse did not notice is question, ut hurriedly went on, '"--found
it dvisle to go wi Edgr Aeling to meet Willim nd offer him e
crown. Willim's conduct t first ws moderte. But e insolence of his
Normns--" How re you getting on now, my der?' it continued, turning
to e s it spoke.

'As wet s ever,' sid e in  melncholy tone: 'it doesn't seem to
dry me t ll.'

'In t cse,' sid e Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, 'I move
t e meeting djourn, for e immedite doption of more energetic
remedies--'

'Spek English!' sid e Eglet. 'I don't know e mening of hlf
ose long words, nd, wht's more, I don't elieve you do eier!' And
e Eglet ent down its hed to hide  smile: some of e oer irds
tittered udily.

'Wht I ws going to sy,' sid e Dodo in n offended tone, 'ws, t
e est ing to get us dry would e  Cucus-rce.'

'Wht IS  Cucus-rce?' sid e; not t she wnted much to know,
ut e Dodo hd pused s if it ought t SOMEBODY ought to spek,
nd no one else seemed inclined to sy nying.

'Why,' sid e Dodo, 'e est wy to explin it is to do it.' (And, s
you might like to try e ing yourself, some winter dy, I will tell
you how e Dodo mnged it.)

First it mrked out  rce-course, in  sort of circle, ('e exct
shpe doesn't mtter,' it sid,) nd en ll e prty were plced
long e course, here nd ere. There ws no 'One, two, ree, nd
wy,' ut ey egn running when ey liked, nd left off when ey
liked, so t it ws not esy to know when e rce ws over. However,
when ey hd een running hlf n hour or so, nd were quite dry gin,
e Dodo suddenly clled out 'The rce is over!' nd ey ll crowded
round it, pnting, nd sking, 'But who hs won?'

This question e Dodo could not nswer wiout  gret del of ought,
nd it st for  long time wi one finger pressed upon its forehed
(e position in which you usully see Shkespere, in e pictures
of him), while e rest wited in silence. At lst e Dodo sid,
'EVERYBODY hs won, nd ll must hve prizes.'

'But who is to give e prizes?' quite  chorus of voices sked.

'Why, SHE, of course,' sid e Dodo, pointing to e wi one finger;
nd e whole prty t once crowded round her, clling out in  confused
wy, 'Prizes! Prizes!'

e hd no ide wht to do, nd in despir she put her hnd in her
pocket, nd pulled out  ox of comfits, (luckily e slt wter hd
not got into it), nd hnded em round s prizes. There ws exctly one
-piece ll round.

'But she must hve  prize herself, you know,' sid e Mouse.

'Of course,' e Dodo replied very grvely. 'Wht else hve you got in
your pocket?' he went on, turning to e.

'Only  imle,' sid e sdly.

'Hnd it over here,' sid e Dodo.

Then ey ll crowded round her once more, while e Dodo solemnly
presented e imle, sying 'We eg your cceptnce of is elegnt
imle'; nd, when it hd finished is short speech, ey ll cheered.

e ought e whole ing very surd, ut ey ll looked so grve
t she did not dre to lugh; nd, s she could not ink of nying
to sy, she simply owed, nd took e imle, looking s solemn s she
could.

The next ing ws to et e comfits: is cused some noise nd
confusion, s e lrge irds complined t ey could not tste
eirs, nd e smll ones choked nd hd to e ptted on e ck.
However, it ws over t lst, nd ey st down gin in  ring, nd
egged e Mouse to tell em someing more.

'You promised to tell me your history, you know,' sid e, 'nd why
it is you hte--C nd D,' she dded in  whisper, hlf frid t it
would e offended gin.

'Mine is  long nd  sd tle!' sid e Mouse, turning to e, nd
sighing.

'It IS  long til, certinly,' sid e, looking down wi wonder t
e Mouse's til; 'ut why do you cll it sd?' And she kept on puzzling
out it while e Mouse ws speking, so t her ide of e tle ws
someing like is:--

         'Fury sid to 
         mouse, Tht he
        met in e
       house,
     "Let us
      o go to
       lw: I will
        prosecute
         YOU.--Come,
           I'll tke no
           denil; We
          must hve 
        tril: For
      relly is
     morning I've
    noing
    to do."
     Sid e
      mouse to e
       cur, "Such
         tril,
         der Sir,
            Wi
          no jury
        or judge,
       would e
      wsting
      our
      re."
       "I'll e
        judge, I'll
         e jury,"
            Sid
         cunning
          old Fury:
          "I'll
          try e
            whole
            cuse,
              nd
           condemn
           you
          to
           de."'


'You re not ttending!' sid e Mouse to e severely. 'Wht re you
inking of?'

'I eg your prdon,' sid e very humly: 'you hd got to e fif
end, I ink?'

'I hd NOT!' cried e Mouse, shrply nd very ngrily.

'A knot!' sid e, lwys redy to mke herself useful, nd looking
nxiously out her. 'Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

'I shll do noing of e sort,' sid e Mouse, getting up nd wlking
wy. 'You insult me y tlking such nonsense!'

'I didn't men it!' pleded poor e. 'But you're so esily offended,
you know!'

The Mouse only growled in reply.

'Plese come ck nd finish your story!' e clled fter it; nd e
oers ll joined in chorus, 'Yes, plese do!' ut e Mouse only shook
its hed imptiently, nd wlked  little quicker.

'Wht  pity it wouldn't sty!' sighed e Lory, s soon s it ws quite
out of sight; nd n old Cr took e opportunity of sying to her
dughter 'Ah, my der! Let is e  lesson to you never to lose
YOUR temper!' 'Hold your tongue, M!' sid e young Cr,  little
snppishly. 'You're enough to try e ptience of n oyster!'

'I wish I hd our Dinh here, I know I do!' sid e loud, ddressing
noody in prticulr. 'She'd soon fetch it ck!'

'And who is Dinh, if I might venture to sk e question?' sid e
Lory.

e replied egerly, for she ws lwys redy to tlk out her pet:
'Dinh's our ct. And she's such  cpitl one for ctching mice you
cn't ink! And oh, I wish you could see her fter e irds! Why,
she'll et  little ird s soon s look t it!'

This speech cused  remrkle senstion mong e prty. Some of e
irds hurried off t once: one old Mgpie egn wrpping itself up very
crefully, remrking, 'I relly must e getting home; e night-ir
doesn't suit my rot!' nd  Cnry clled out in  tremling voice to
its children, 'Come wy, my ders! It's high time you were ll in ed!'
On vrious pretexts ey ll moved off, nd e ws soon left lone.

'I wish I hdn't mentioned Dinh!' she sid to herself in  melncholy
tone. 'Noody seems to like her, down here, nd I'm sure she's e est
ct in e world! Oh, my der Dinh! I wonder if I shll ever see you
ny more!' And here poor e egn to cry gin, for she felt very
lonely nd low-spirited. In  little while, however, she gin herd
 little pttering of footsteps in e distnce, nd she looked up
egerly, hlf hoping t e Mouse hd chnged his mind, nd ws coming
ck to finish his story.